Document LoadBalancer Service safeguard (#761)
elastisys/compliantkubernetes: docs/user-guide/safeguards/enforce-no-load-balancer-service.md

---
tags: []
---

# Avoid deploying a Load Balancer Service on unsupported cloud providers

Some infrastructure providers do not support `Service` of `type: LoadBalancer`, e.g. because the load-balancers don't integrate with Kubernetes.
In such cases your administrator may deploy a policy to prevent such Services from being deployed.

When attempting to apply a `Service` with `type: LoadBalancer` anyway, the following error message would be returned:

> Creation of LoadBalancer Service is not supported.
> Contact your platform administrator for questions about Load Balancers.
> Read more at https://elastisys.io/compliantkubernetes/user-guide/safeguards/enforce-no-load-balancer-service/

``` yaml

> apiVersion: v1
> kind: Service
> metadata:
>   name: my-service
> spec:
>   selector:
>     app.kubernetes.io/name: MyApp
>   ports:
>     - protocol: TCP
>       port: 80
>       targetPort: 9376
>   clusterIP: 10.0.171.239
>   type: LoadBalancer
> status:
>   loadBalancer:
>     ingress:
>       - ip: 192.0.2.127

Reviewer: I guess a more plain example LB service would look something like this
```suggestion
apiVersion: v1
kind: Service
metadata:
  name: my-service
spec:
  selector:
    app.kubernetes.io/name: MyApp
  ports:
    - protocol: TCP
      port: 80
      targetPort: 9376
  type: LoadBalancer
```

---
tags: []
---

# Avoid deploying a Load Balancer Service on unsupported cloud providers

> Some cloud providers do not support `Service` of `type: LoadBalancer`, e.g.

Reviewer 2: Please use one line per sentence for more semantic diff-ing.

Author: Done.

> Some cloud providers do not support `Service` of `type: LoadBalancer`, e.g.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Some infrastructure providers do not support `Service` of `type: LoadBalancer`, e.g.
```

according to our [Glossary](https://elastisys.io/compliantkubernetes/glossary/#infrastructure-provider).

> because load balancing is handled at the Kubernetes layer. In such cases

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
because the load-balancers don't integrate with Kubernetes. In such cases
```

your administrator may deploy a policy to prevent such Services from being
deployed.

When attempting to apply a `Service` with `type: LoadBalancer` anyway,
the following error message would be returned:

> Creation of LoadBalancer Service is not supported. Contact your

> > platform administrator for questions about Load Balancers.

Reviewer 2: Can we make the error message point to this page? I think we had an initiative to point all OPA errors to `elastisys.io` but I'm unsure where that went.

Author: Yes. Adding a link in https://github.com/elastisys/compliantkubernetes-apps/pull/1924

Author: I see other safeguard policies have such links, e.g. [no-latest](https://github.com/elastisys/compliantkubernetes-apps/blob/ba41b9109ea5edc48878771273dbe5c6a18757f7/helmfile.d/charts/gatekeeper/templates/policies/disallow-tag.rego#L10), looks like that was done in https://github.com/elastisys/compliantkubernetes-apps/pull/1776
